.TH WAYLAND-SCANNER 1 "2024-10-15" "@version@"
.SH NAME
wayland-scanner \- A utility for generating protocol files for Wayland
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wayland-scanner
[OPTION]... [INPUT FILE] [OUTPUT FILE]
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wayland-scanner
is a command-line utility that processes XML protocol files for the Wayland 
display server protocol. It can generate both C source code and header files
from protocol description files.

The tool reads an XML file describing Wayland protocol objects and generates
code to interface with these objects.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH MODES
wayland-scanner supports several modes that define how the protocol file should be processed:
.
.TP
.B client-header:
Generates a header file containing the client-side API.
.
.TP
.B server-header:
Generates a header file containing the server-side API.
.
.TP
.B code:
Generates the C source code for the protocol interface implementation.
.
.TP
.B private-code:
Generates the C source code that might be necessary for private protocol objects.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B --include-core-headers: 
(Optional) Include standard Wayland headers 
(wayland-client-core.h or wayland-server-core.h) in the generated output.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.
.TP
.B Generate a client header:
wayland-scanner client-header protocol.xml protocol-client-header.h
.
.TP
.B Generate server header:
wayland-scanner server-header protocol.xml protocol-server-header.h
.
.TP
.B Generate the C source code for both client and server:
wayland-scanner code protocol.xml protocol-code.c
.
.TP
.B Generate private code:
wayland-scanner private-code protocol.xml protocol-private-code.c
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 8
.B INPUT FILE:
the XML protocol description file.
.TP 8
.B OUTPUT FILE:
the file where the generated code should be written.
.TP 8
.B EXIT STATUS
returns 0 on success, and a non-zero value if an error occurs.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B wayland(1), wayland-client(1), wayland-server(1)